Consider an adventurer looting a treasure chest. There are more items in the chest than they can carry and they wish to maximize the amount of cash value they take with them.<br /><br />Consider a maximization the algorithm being applied to the following set of items, with a strength of 5 pounds of carrying capacity:<br /><br />#0) 0 lb, 0 gp, "Worthless Placeholder Object"<br />#1) 2 lb, 3 gp, "Jug of Mead"<br />#2) 3 lb, 4 gp, "Keg of Spices"<br />#3) 4 lb, 5 gp, "Haunch of Mutton"<br />#4) 5 lb, 6 gp, "Iron Longsword"<br /><br />The placeholder object might seem odd but it's important to have it. Just trust me on this for now.<br /><br />By inspection, If we have a strength of 5 pounds, the optimal solution is to take the Mead and Spices for a total haul of 7 gp.<br /><br />Now of course the *truly* optimal solution is to feast on Mead and Mutton and then return to the town drunk<br />and armed with the Iron Longsword, but lets assume that you are a very frugally-minded adventurer and wish to simply maximize<br />your cashflow.<br /><br />To prove that Mead+Spices is the optimal solution, we create a table. (The term "programming" actually refers to a tabular<br />method and it predates computer programming.) We fill up this table one spot at a time starting with the top left, so that<br />it consists of is the optimal cash value after having considered a given item for a given level of strength. Here's what<br />the table will ultimately look like:<br /><br /><pre><br />               tmp_str<br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3 <br />item_id   2|0 0 3 4 4 7<br />          3|0 0 3 4 5 7<br />          4|0 0 3 4 5 7<br /></pre><br /><br /><br />The first thing we do is consider item #0, the Worthless Placeholder Object. It is weightless and<br />has a cash value of zero, so for every possible level of strength, we loot the item and write down that<br />the optimal value at this point is zero gold. This might seem odd but it's really there just to get<br />things started with a line of "optimal solutions" equal to zero, since for future items our decisions<br />must always reference a *previous* optimal solution.<br /><br />Our table now looks like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br /></pre><br /><br />(For the sake of brevity I'll abbreviate the words "optimal solution" to "OS" from now on.)<br /><br />Next we move on to item #1, the Jug of Mead, which weighs 2 pounds and is worth 3 gold. With a strength of<br />0 we can't carry it, so we must write down our OS from the previous line when we had the same strength: zero gold.<br /><br />We do the same with strength 1, writing down the previous line's OS for strength 1: zero gold. Our table now looks like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0      <br /></pre><br /><br />At strength 2, we can carry the Jug of Mead and have two options:<br />Option 1) We can either again go with the OS from the previous line for this strength level (zero gold)<br />OR<br />Option 2) Add the Jug of Mead to an OS from the previous line with our strength reduced by the 2 pound weight of the Jug, to reflect<br />that we must be able to carry everything in the previous OS. Since we are at item_id=1 and tmp_str=2, the OS we look back<br />to is item_id=0 and tmp_str=0. We add the value of the Jug to this previous OS and get 3 gold.<br /><br />Option 2 is obviously better, so we go with that for strength 2. We essentially do the same for strength 3, strength 4 and strength 5<br />as well, with the only difference being that we are looking back to (item_id=0,tmp_str=1) for strength 3, (item_id=0,tmp_str=2) for strength 4,<br />and (item_id=0,tmp_str=3) for strength 5.<br /><br />Our table now looks like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3<br /></pre>       <br /><br />Next we move on to item #2, the Keg of Spices, which weighs 3 pounds and is worth 4 gold. For strength 0,1 and 2,<br />we can't carry it, so we write down what we wrote down the last time we had that level of strength, which<br />is 0,0,3. Our table now looks like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3 <br />          2|0 0 3     <br /></pre><br /><br />At strength 3, we can carry the Keg and have two options:<br />Option 1) We can either again go with the OS from the previous line for this strength level: 3g.<br />OR<br />Option 2) Add the Keg of Spices to an OS from the previous line with our strength reduced by the 3 pound weight of the Keg, to reflect<br />that we must be able to carry everything in the previous OS. Since we are at item_id=2 and tmp_str=3, the OS we look back<br />to is item_id=1 and tmp_str=0, which is 0 gold. We add the value of the Keg to this previous OS and get 4g, making option 2 better than<br />option 1.<br /><br />Our table now looks like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3 <br />          2|0 0 3 4<br /></pre><br /><br />At strength 4 we essentially repeat the decision we made at strength 3, with the only difference being that our strength is now one<br />pound higher, so our lookback item is one strength higher as well. We look back to (item_id=1,tmp_str=1) instead of (item_id=1,tmp_str=0),<br />making our table look like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3 <br />          2|0 0 3 4 4<br /></pre><br /><br />At strength 5, we can carry the Keg and have two options:<br />Option 1) We can either again go with the OS from the previous line for this strength level (3 gold)<br />OR<br />Option 2) Add the Keg of Spices to an OS from the previous line with our strength reduced by the 3 pound weight of the Keg, to reflect<br />that we must be able to carry everything in the previous OS. Since we are at (item_id=2,tmp_str=5), the OS we look back<br />to is (item_id=1,tmp_str=2), which is 3 gold. We add the value of the Keg (4gp) to this previous OS and get 7 gold, making option 2<br />better than option 1.<br /><br />Our table now looks like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3 <br />          2|0 0 3 4 4 7 <br /></pre>       <br />                     <br />On to item 3, the Haunch of Mutton, which weighs 4 pounds and is worth five gold. For strength 0,1,2 and 3, we cannot carry it<br />and must go with the previous OS for that strength level, making our table look like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3 <br />          2|0 0 3 4 4 7                   <br />          3|0 0 3 4<br /></pre> <br />      <br />At strength 4, we can carry the Mutton and have two options:<br />1) We can either again go with the OS from the previous line for this strength level (4 gold)<br />OR<br />2) Add the Haunch of Mutton to an OS from the previous line with our strength reduced by the 4 pound weight of the Haunch, to reflect<br />that we must be able to carry everything in the previous OS. Since we are at item_id=3 and tmp_str=4, the OS we look back<br />to is (item_id=2,tmp_str=0), which is 0 gold. We add the value of the Haunch (5gp) to this previous OS and get 5 gold, making option 2<br />better than option 1.<br /><br />Our table now looks like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3 <br />          2|0 0 3 4 4 7                   <br />          3|0 0 3 4 5<br /></pre><br />       <br />At strength 5, we can carry the Mutton and have two options:<br />1) We can either again go with the OS from the previous line for this strength level (7 gold)<br />OR<br />2) Add the Haunch of Mutton to an OS from the previous line with our strength reduced by the 4lb weight of the Haunch, to reflect<br />that we must be able to carry everything in the previous OS. Since we are at (item_id=3,tmp_str=4), the OS we look back<br />to is (item_id=2,tmp_str=0), which is 0 gold. We add the value of the Haunch (5 gold) to this previous OS and get 5 gold, making<br />option 1 better than option 2.<br /><br />Our table now looks like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3<br />          2|0 0 3 4 4 7<br />          3|0 0 3 4 5 7<br /></pre><br /><br /><br />On to item 4, the Iron Longsword, which weighs 5 pounds and is worth 6 gold. For strength 0,1,2,3 and 4, we cannot carry it<br />and must go with the previous OS for that strength level, making our table look like this:<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3 <br />          2|0 0 3 4 4 7                   <br />          3|0 0 3 4 5 7<br />          4|0 0 3 4 5<br /></pre><br /><br />At strength 6, we can carry the Longword and have two options:<br />1) We can either again go with the OS from the previous line for this strength level (7 gold)<br />OR<br />2) Add the Iron Longsword to an OS from the previous line with our strength reduced by the 5 pound weight of the Longsword, to reflect<br />that we must be able to carry everything in the previous OS. Since we are at (item_id=4,tmp_str=5), the OS we look back<br />to is (item_id=3,tmp_str=0), which is 0 gold. We add the value of the Longsword (6 gold) to this previous OS and get 6 gold, making<br />option 1 better than option 2.<br /><br />Our table now looks like this, and we are done!<br /><br /><pre><br />          _|0_1_2_3_4_5<br />          0|0 0 0 0 0 0<br />          1|0 0 3 3 3 3 <br />          2|0 0 3 4 4 7                   <br />          3|0 0 3 4 5 7 <br />          4|0 0 3 4 5 7<br /></pre><br /><br /><br />Program Output:<br /><pre><br />Items Left Behind:<br />Name                                     Weight     Value     <br />Jug of Mead                              2          3         <br />Iron Longsword                           5          6         <br />=================================================================<br />                                         7          9<br />Items Taken:<br />Name                                     Weight     Value     <br />Keg of Spices                            3          4         <br />Haunch of Mutton                         4          5         <br />=================================================================<br />                                         7          9<br />Unused Capacity: 0<br /></pre>
