---
layout: post
title: The Election of the Doge
date: '2009-08-12T15:20:00.000-07:00'
author: Scott McCoy
tags: 
modified_time: '2009-08-12T15:25:07.423-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-250956833460526415.post-2373809305748055657
blogger_orig_url: https://scotthmccoy.blogspot.com/2009/08/election-of-doge.html
---

The Venetians' system for electing the Doge ("Duke") was a particularly convoluted process, consisting of five rounds of drawing lots (sortition) and five rounds of approval voting. <br /><br />By drawing lots, a body of 30 electors was chosen, which was further reduced to nine electors by drawing lots again. The electoral college of nine members elected 40 people by approval voting; those 40 were reduced to form a second electoral college of 12 members by drawing lots again. The second electoral college elected 25 people by approval voting, which were reduced to form a third electoral college of nine members by drawing lots. The third electoral college elected 45 people, which were reduced to form a fourth electoral college of 11 by drawing lots. They in turn elected a final electoral body of 41 members, who ultimately elected the Doge. Despite its complexity, the system had certain desirable properties such as being hard to game and ensuring that the winner reflected the opinions of both majority and minority factions.<br /><br /><br /><br />1. Draw lots to pick 30 people<br />2. They draw lots again, down to 9<br />3. These 9 elect 40 via Approval Voting<br />4. Those 40 are reduced to 12 by drawing lots again.<br />5. Those 12 Elect 25 by approval voting<br />6. Those 25 draw lots down to 9<br />7. Those 9 Elect 45<br />8. Those 45 draw lots down to 11<br />9. Those 11 elect 41<br />10. Those 41 elect the Doge<br /><br />Their object was to minimize as far as possible the influence of individual great families, and this was effected by a complex elective machinery.<br /><br />Despite its complexity, the system had certain desirable properties such as being hard to game and ensuring that the winner reflected the opinions of both majority and minority factions.[8] This process was used with little modification from 1268 until the end of the Republic of Venice in 1797, and was one of the factors contributing to the durability of the republic.