
<pre><br />Symbol       Meaning<br />?            We're doing a lookaround<br />=            Positive Match<br />!            Negative Match<br /><            Look backwards instead of forwards<br /><br /><br />Example      Meaning<br />(?=regex)    Positive Lookahead<br />(?!regex)    Negative Lookahead<br />(?<=regex)   Positive Lookbehind<br />(?&lt;!regex)   Negative Lookbehind<br /></pre><br /><br /><br />Unfortunately they are zero-length matches, so their use is somewhat limited to doing very precise search-and-replace. For example, a Positive Lookahead of foo(?=bar) can match foobar, but only highlight the "foo", making it possible to replace only the foo portion of "foobar"s throughout your document.<br /><br /><br />Which leads us to this little gem, which will find "title" where it's not preceded anywhere on the line by "self". It's great for finding properties to replace with ivars in objective C:<br /><pre>^((?!self).)*title.*$</pre><br /><br />I'm not a hundred percent sure how it works. Here's my attempt at an explanation:<br /><br />The <span style="font-weight:bold;">^</span> says "beginning of line". This anchor is needed so that the match-anything (the period) doesn't absorb the first character on the line.<br /><br />The <span style="font-weight:bold;">((?!self).)*</span> says, "a negative lookahead for "self" followed by anything (the period), with that group matching zero or more times". I think that this basically means "not-self and anything a couple of times".<br /><br />The <span style="font-weight:bold;">title.*$</span> portion is fairly self-explanatory, meaning "then find title followed by the rest of the line." At least in Xcode, the <span style="font-weight:bold;">.*$</span> just unnecessarily extends the match through to the rest of the line.<br /><br /><br />Here's another example which will find lines that have "addObserver" NOT eventually followed by "observer_":<br /><span style="font-weight:bold;">addobserver(?!.*observer_.*)</span><br /><br />This is handy as a replace-all template. Use it to replace all lines that have a memory address (0x) that aren't followed by "allHTTPHeaderFields"<br /><span style="font-weight:bold;">^.*0x((?!allHTTPHeaderFields).)+$</span>