---
layout: post
title: Thoughts on MVC
date: 2020-08-08 16:39 -0700
---

1. Model - State, data, algorithms, networking, business rules about how data is created, read, updated and deleted
2. View - Presentation of data, user interaction, event capture, visual appeal
3. Controller - Presentation logic but not data logic. Consumption of user interaction events translation into model requests, coordination between prior two layers, odd jobs.

## In iOS
1. The state of the program (the model) should be isolated and protected via an API just like you would isolate the backend from the front-end with an API when building a website.
2. Views are literally just UIViews. It's tempting to load them up with logic but they should really just be a place to receive read input from and write output to. This category also includes other odd things like the virtual keyboard, audio input/output, etc.
3. The controller is typically a VC. It should have presentation logic but no data logic. 


## Personal Notes
I'm actually pretty good about how I MVC thanks to my background in web dev work which naturally lended itself to that split: HTML and CSS as the View, JS as the Controller, and a backend composed of an API + database being the Model.

I do tend to blur Views and VCs together, though. For example:

VrtcalSDK: 
1. VRTBanner should just concern itself with being a view and user I/O. It should definitely *not* own the refresh timer - since that's part of the state, it belongs in the Model, or at least the Controller.
2. The VRTWebView should be renamed to VRTWebViewController and should only handle pushing content to the webview (along with the MRAID script) and pushing events (with some processing) back to the controller. The VRTWebViewController should also have an object that contains all the state information in one spot. 
3. ModalDisplayManager should be renamed to ModalDisplayController
4. I could sort the class files into separate folders based on their MVC role.

LunchVote:
On LunchVote's election.js I could probably do well by refactoring "pure view" stuff into reusable chunks of view code that the Controller code (which is most of the file) could then interact with in a more abstract way.










