
A task that seemed simple, measurable, and completable in a single sprint has turned out to be based on untrue assumptions that have rendered the task completely impossible. What do we do with the ticket? For velocity to be a useful metric it has to capture estimation mistakes like this but there's good arguments on both sides for what to do with it:<br /><br /><div data-reddit-rtjson="{&quot;entityMap&quot;:{},&quot;blocks&quot;:[{&quot;key&quot;:&quot;4lg48&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Archive it: The project commitment drops by a small amount so we're still a few points closer to the project's finish line. Velocity maintains integrity as an overall measurement of the average number of SPs per sprint that are *successfully* completed, counting estimation learning experiences like this one&quot;,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;unstyled&quot;,&quot;depth&quot;:0,&quot;inlineStyleRanges&quot;:[],&quot;entityRanges&quot;:[],&quot;data&quot;:{}},{&quot;key&quot;:&quot;bg0vv&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Move it to Done: The team is a bit happier that they don't \&quot;lose points\&quot;&quot;,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;unstyled&quot;,&quot;depth&quot;:0,&quot;inlineStyleRanges&quot;:[],&quot;entityRanges&quot;:[],&quot;data&quot;:{}},{&quot;key&quot;:&quot;18ppd&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Slice It: move the completed portion to Done and archive the impossible portion:&quot;,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;unstyled&quot;,&quot;depth&quot;:0,&quot;inlineStyleRanges&quot;:[],&quot;entityRanges&quot;:[],&quot;data&quot;:{}}]}"><div class="" data-block="true" data-editor="9ccba6" data-offset-key="8tbs5-0-0"><div class="public-DraftStyleDefault-block public-DraftStyleDefault-ltr" data-offset-key="8tbs5-0-0"><ul><li><span data-offset-key="8tbs5-0-0">Move it to Done: The team is a bit happier that they don't "lose points", but the Definition of Done becomes fuzzy by expanding it to include "Stuff that is technically not done".</span></li><li><span data-offset-key="8tbs5-0-0">Archive It: The project commitment drops by a small amount so we're still a few points closer to the project's finish line. Velocity maintains integrity as an overall measurement of the average number of SPs per sprint that are <b>successfully</b> completed, counting estimation learning experiences like this one.</span></li><li><span data-offset-key="blus6-0-0">Slice It: Split the ticket and move the completed portion to Done and archive the impossible portion. The team is happy that they get <i>some</i> credit and velocity maintains integrity as a metric of work successfully completed per sprint.</span></li></ul></div></div></div><div data-reddit-rtjson="{&quot;entityMap&quot;:{},&quot;blocks&quot;:[{&quot;key&quot;:&quot;rbk9&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;A task that seemed simple, measurable, and completable in a single sprint has turned out to be based on untrue assumptions that have rendered the task completely impossible. Do we move the ticket to Done or just archive it? I think that for our velocity to be a useful metric it has to capture estimation mistakes like this but there's good arguments on both sides for what to do with it:&quot;,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;unstyled&quot;,&quot;depth&quot;:0,&quot;inlineStyleRanges&quot;:[],&quot;entityRanges&quot;:[],&quot;data&quot;:{}}]}"></div><div data-reddit-rtjson="{&quot;entityMap&quot;:{},&quot;blocks&quot;:[{&quot;key&quot;:&quot;f3aph&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;A task that seemed simple, measurable, and completable in a single sprint has turned out to be based on untrue assumptions that have rendered the task completely impossible. Do we move the ticket to Done or just archive it? I think that for our velocity to be a useful metric it has to capture estimation mistakes like this but there's good arguments on both sides for what to do with it:&quot;,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;unstyled&quot;,&quot;depth&quot;:0,&quot;inlineStyleRanges&quot;:[],&quot;entityRanges&quot;:[],&quot;data&quot;:{}}]}"></div><div data-reddit-rtjson="{&quot;entityMap&quot;:{},&quot;blocks&quot;:[{&quot;key&quot;:&quot;f3aph&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;A task that seemed simple, measurable, and completable in a single sprint has turned out to be based on untrue assumptions that have rendered the task completely impossible. Do we move the ticket to Done or just archive it? I think that for our velocity to be a useful metric it has to capture estimation mistakes like this but there's good arguments on both sides for what to do with it:&quot;,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;unstyled&quot;,&quot;depth&quot;:0,&quot;inlineStyleRanges&quot;:[],&quot;entityRanges&quot;:[],&quot;data&quot;:{}}]}"></div><div data-reddit-rtjson="{&quot;entityMap&quot;:{},&quot;blocks&quot;:[{&quot;key&quot;:&quot;f3aph&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;A task that seemed simple, measurable, and completable in a single sprint has turned out to be based on untrue assumptions that have rendered the task completely impossible. Do we move the ticket to Done or just archive it? I think that for our velocity to be a useful metric it has to capture estimation mistakes like this but there's good arguments on both sides for what to do with it:&quot;,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;unstyled&quot;,&quot;depth&quot;:0,&quot;inlineStyleRanges&quot;:[],&quot;entityRanges&quot;:[],&quot;data&quot;:{}}]}"></div><div data-reddit-rtjson="{&quot;entityMap&quot;:{},&quot;blocks&quot;:[{&quot;key&quot;:&quot;12q8o&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;A task that seemed simple, measurable, and completable in a single sprint has turned out to be based on untrue assumptions that have rendered the task completely impossible. Do we move the ticket to Done or just archive it? I think that for our velocity to be a useful metric it has to capture estimation mistakes like this but there's good arguments on both sides for what to do with it:&quot;,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;unstyled&quot;,&quot;depth&quot;:0,&quot;inlineStyleRanges&quot;:[],&quot;entityRanges&quot;:[],&quot;data&quot;:{}}]}"></div><div data-reddit-rtjson="{&quot;entityMap&quot;:{},&quot;blocks&quot;:[{&quot;key&quot;:&quot;12q8o&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;A task that seemed simple, measurable, and completable in a single sprint has turned out to be based on untrue assumptions that have rendered the task completely impossible. Do we move the ticket to Done or just archive it? I think that for our velocity to be a useful metric it has to capture estimation mistakes like this but there's good arguments on both sides for what to do with it:&quot;,&quot;type&quot;:&quot;unstyled&quot;,&quot;depth&quot;:0,&quot;inlineStyleRanges&quot;:[],&quot;entityRanges&quot;:[],&quot;data&quot;:{}}]}"></div>